 The A. I. C.C. would yet again, at this last moment, in the interest of world freedom, renew this appeal to Britain and the United Nations.
 Bat the Committee feels that it is no longer justified in holding the nation back from endeavouring to assert its will against an imperialist and authoritarian government, which dominates over and prevents it from functioning in its own interest and in the interest of humanity.
 The Committee resolves, therefore, to sanction, for the vindication of Indias inalienable right to freedom and independence, the starting of a mass struggle on non violent lines on the widest possible scale, so that the country might utilize all the nonviolent strength it has gathered during the last twenty two years of peaceful struggle.
 Such a struggle must inevitably be under the leadership of Gandhiji and the Committee requests him to take the lead and guide the nation in the steps to be taken.
 The Committee appeals to the people of India to face the dangers and hardships that will fall to their lot with courage and endurance, and to hold together under tile leadership of Gandhiji and carry out his instructions as disciplined soldiers of Indian freedom.
 They must remember that nonviolence is the basis of this movement.
 A time may come when it may not be possible to issue instructions or for instructions to reach our people, and when no Congress committees can function.
 When this happens, every man and woman who is participating in this movement must function for himself or herself within the four corners of the general instructions issued.
 Every Indian who desires freedom and strives for it must be his own guide urging him on along the hard road where there is no resting place and which leads ultimately to the independence and deliverance of India.
 Lastly, whilst the A. I. C. C. has stated its own view of the future governance under free India the A. I. C. C. wishes to make it quite clear to all concerned that by embarking on mass struggle it has no intention of gaining power for the Congress.
 The power, when, it comes, will belong to the whole people of India.

 become a mahatma.
 And even after I became a Mahatma everything that I did would not have been put up with.
 As it is, in India anyone who is called a mahatma ceases to be answerable to the publice, whateverright or wronghe might do.
 Tolstoy had been a great warrior, but when he realized that war was not a good thing he gave up his life in trying to put an end to war.
 He has said that the greatest power on earth is public opinion and it is generated by truth and non violence.
 That is what I am trying to do.
 But nothing is going to come of my efforts unless public opinion in India is informed with courage and truthfulness.
 But that is not the case today.
 The impression I have is that we do not want the Dominion Status that is to be granted to us on August 15. The reason is the public opinion that has been forming over the years in favour of complete independence.
 This talk of Dominion Status pricks the country.
 The feeling is justified and yet not quite right.
 It is not right because we are not aware of the potentialities of Dominion Status.
 First, with the coming of Dominion Status the British will quit India in two months.
 Secondly, we can shake off the Dominion Status whenever we want.
 Of course if we persist in our madness others are hardly to blame.
 Anyway, to return to the subject of public opinion, if it stays vigilant all will be well.
 If through public opinion, without any bribery, without any corrupt methods being adopted, Bengal decides to remain one, then it is well and good.
 But we have been cowards and slaves so long that we are unable to resist the temptation to do ignoble acts.
 But if one has not acted wickedly and still people level charges against one, why should one feel unhappy?
 For instance, there are many high placed officers who do not become corrupt, who remain clean; and yet allegations of corruption are made against them.
 This does not perturb them.
 If someone calls me a wicked and corrupt man, do I have to weep?
 Do I become wicked merely because someone calls me so?
 I do admit that false allegations are sometimes made against people out of malice and cowardice.
 We should not talk ill of anyone.
 We should see good points of people.
 If we want to be free let us not find fault with others, let us look at their better side and try to encourage them.
 I now assume that the division of India is a fact and the

 MAHABALESHWAR, May 26, 1945 It is understood that Maj.
 Longden, among other things, raised the questions of Dominion Status v.
 Independence, the Hindu Muslim question, responsibility for the August 1942 disturbances and possibility of Congress co operation in the war effort.
 Mahatma Gandhi is said to have replied that the question of Dominion Status v.
 Independence could be decided after the principle of independence for India had been accepted by the British Government.
 On the Hindu Muslim question, Mahatma Gandhi is understood to have said that Hindus who had been converted to Islam could not claim separate nationhood by virtue of a change of religion.

 Mahatma Gandhi at the outset expressed gratification that he was able, after many years, to meet so many people here.
 Gandhiji said : I have been presented a purse of Rs. 18,000. 2 This money will be spent in Bengal for the service of the poor.
 I have nothing to tell you new.
 Four resolutions were passed at the Nagpur Congress 3. I regard them as four pillars of the countrys indepe ndence.Those included Hindu Muslim unity, untouchab ility, prohibition and charkha.
 If we can give effect to those four resolutions, swaraj will be won automatically.
 I have the same if not more regard for those programmes today.
 4 In that programme millions of the masses could take part.
 I hope the vast gathering here, which consists of Harijans and Muslims as well, will fulfil those programmes.
 The programme of charkha can be taken up by everyone, including the old and the young.
 It is a matter of regret that the charkha has not yet been taken up by all.
 It pains me that most of you who have come here are not clad in khaddar.
 If you spin your yarn, you will not have to complain to me of the dearness of khadi.
 If you spin for half an hour daily you can meet your own requirements of cloth.
 If you are not prepared to devote one hour a day to spinning, how can we claim to attain swaraj ?
 People of other countries make huge sacrifices in retaining their independence.
 If we pin our faith on ahimsa we will not have to spend croresof rupees nor sacrifice millions of people for our independence.
 Till my death,I will talk of no other means of achieving independence.
 I would repeat the programme that I have laid before the country.
 Women can take more effective part than men in achieving independence through ahimsa.
 Women as much as men must work side by side for the countrys independence.
 Whether in charkha or removal of untouchability, they must not lag behind men.
 From times immemorial, in India it had been the duty of women to spin.
 Even today women spin more than men.
 If charkha be the sole weapon for winning swaraj then women can certainly contribute more than men

 Khaddar is a native made cloth, woven on primitive looms from hand spun yarn by unskilled, amateurish workers.
 It is coarse, stiff, full of knots and faults, and always looks dirtyyet there is a positive vogue for it, even wealthy natives taking a pride in garments made from it.
 For khaddar represents in concrete form the slogan of the rapidly growing Nationalist party: India for the Indians.
 Not a penny of the money spent on it leaves the country.
 He who wears it helps to feed Indias starving millions, proclaims his countrys independence and shows himself a patriot of the first water.
 Khaddar is one of the weapons used by, and, indeed, invented by, Mahatma Gandhi in his fight against foreign rule in India.
 Half saint, half fanatic, and wholly patriot, Mahatma Gandhi now speaks, in his person and through the native Press, to the very hearts of Indias educated classes.
 Non co operation is not dead in India because it is no longer talked.
 It has now reached the stage of silent and dangerous activity.
 Let Mr. Gandhis missionaries once rope in the masses, and India will no longer be a poor buyer, she will be no buyer at all.
 The blow is aimed not only at cotton.
 It is a definite attempt to ruin the market for all British goods.

